You might have a date that would be coming in on the
train from Dallas, Fort Worth. And as I recall,
there was
an evening train about 5 o'clock that they could
catch and come down. You'd meet them at the
station. you know, take them to their room,
whatever facilities that, you know, they had.
They had dorms open sometimes, or they could stay
at a house, you know. And lots of times they would
come down and they would stay with somebody, some
other local girl who lived here. And then you would
line up for the dance. and little activities. We
used to go after the dance to a little kind of party
afterwards at the old country club building at the
Bryan Municipal Lake. That was a favorite place.
You know, you could rent that and meet there after
the dance, you know, to go all night, you see. And
that was something that you could do. Now,
generally, these girls came from where? From TSCW
or from SMU or any other school. Who paid their
railroad? They would do that. Okay. And how were
these young women treated once they arrived in
College Station?
Well, they, it all depends upon which how you were
classified. If you were a freshman bringing a
girl, well, you knew that she wasn't looking at
you, she was looking at the upperclassmen. And
that was the way it went. Now, if you were a senior,
well, you were looking at other girls that
somebody else had brought, you see. But then
again, your own date, and lots of them by that time
were... were what we would call senior favorites,
you know, that the Longhorns called senior
favorites, and they had known each other for a
while. And that was a little different. Then
senior ring dance was a little special, too, you
see. I had one answer when I asked how were they
treated, and he said, like royalty. Well, that's
true. But you know, I remember once there was a, and
you might know this school there in Missouri,
Stevens. Oh, yes. Stevens College. Stevens
College. As they would take tours, those girls,
and one of their trains happened to land at College
Station once. Really? for a very quick dance and
getting back on.
I just know that they had a hard time getting them
all on the train to leave. Was this while you were a
student? I don't think I was either. I don't think I
was a student. I may have been, but I didn't know any
of our mediums. Stevens College was then a
two-year institution on the east end of Broadway
in downtown Columbia, Missouri, and had a high
reputation as a finishing school for southern
ladies. Correct. And they...
were supposedly, if they went to Stevens,
supposedly they came from a prestigious family
and so forth. And I'm smiling at the potential
combination of the Aggie energy and the Stevens
girls.
Let's see, the student indulgences of that time,
tobacco and alcohol and did undergraduate smoke
much then?
I don't, they did but I don't think they, did to an
excess. Of course, you had some smokers. What were
the favorite brands? Lucky Strike, you know, and
then Lucky Strike goes to... Lucky Strike Green.
Lucky Strike Green goes to war, something like
that. Chesterfield, I guess, as I faintly recall.
But, you know, we didn't have any kind of... That
was the extent of it. Indulgence would be tobacco
and alcohol. I don't think I ever know of anything
else besides that. Did you hear of anybody going to
the chicken ranch in LaGrange? Did you know it
existed? We knew it existed, but I think the recent
story about the Junction Boys put it more on the map
than it was because they had a local establishment
closer than the chicken ranch, it was over here at
Brenham.
I had never heard of that. Now, I have never heard
any mention of a bootlegger in Brazos County that
is a place to buy illegal whiskey. No, I don't know
of any. Come to think of it, I don't know if we had
any. I'm not heard of them. Well, wait a minute now.
Let's just say probably some of these guys could
have gone to what we called at that time North
Bryan. and might have been able to obtain
something. I don't think it was a habit. And I've
not heard of anyone mention a house of ill repute in
Bryan College Station. No, not in those times. The
only one that I recall or heard about was the one at
Brenham. After World War II, near the end of it, I
heard of some rumors about activities on the other
side of the Brazos River Bridge just beyond the air
base. that there were two or three places apparent
but that was not for a case that was for for the air
base that uh... a little bit gambling and goodness
knows what else in the background well uh... it
could have been could have been uh... back to uh...
backed a m uh... silver caps was that a reality
during your days earlier do you remember it was it
was it was very special and it was all different
uh... key than it is today. It was done at academic,
and lights were off, and it wasn't publicized
Anything like that. It was usually on an
individual basis. Did everyone take it
seriously? Oh, yeah. Absolutely. And it was quite
an occasion. But, you know, it's just like, well,
we go back to the muster and all, you see. They do so
much about that now. Midnight yell practice that
was good in the old days because it was unscheduled
It would came at a time that the yell leader thought
that we needed to boost the team a little bit and All
of a sudden it would happen There was a lot of toilet
paper thrown And it wasn't scheduled before every
home game did it occur in the stadium in No, sir. It
occurred usually when Yale practice was on the
steps of the YMCA. That's what I thought. And then
later moved to the steps of Goodwin Hall. But of
course, it wasn't a production.
As you were preparing to leave for graduation,
what did you and your classmates, what were you all
talking about? I think I can guess. We were really
concerned about what was going to happen to us as
far as whether we were going to be enlisted or
whether we were going to be sent
to officer candidate school. And as I recall, we
went to Houston and were inducted as enlisted men
in the reserve and then called to active duty and we
all then went to, well, not everybody, but most of
us went to Fort Sam Houston and were inducted. And
this was a little unusual. Before you could go to
OCS,
you had to be a corporal. So here we were reporting
in as privates and then in a week being promoted to
corporal, sent to OCS. While the rest of the guys
when we got to OCS were sergeants and corporals for
more months than we were.
When did you get your Aggie ring? Do you remember?
You have to have so many hours. What was it, 100 or 90
hours? That's what it used to be. 90 hours, I think,
something like that. And you brought it through
the registrar. Remember what it cost? $23.75,
something like that. Do you have any special Aggie
Ring stories to share? Where you lost it or
somebody recognized it when you walked into a
certain building or something or other?
No, I really don't, but it's recognized all over.
Is that your original? That's my original, pretty
well worn.
When you left to go to World War II, how well
prepared and trained did you and your colleagues
think you were? We thought we were ready, you know,
actually. But the little daily exercise that was
part of our routine on our senior year really
didn't. prepare you, because we didn't know what
the armor was like. But we soon found out.
We're getting near the end of the questions that I
had thought about. Can you think of any important
omissions so far, some special things you wanted
to be sure to include? I won't probably think about
that until after you've gone. Okay. But there's so
many things that you just can't recall.
Oh, yes. What are the key ingredients of Aggie
spirit? What creates that feeling?
Well, I think it's association with... men and
women now that you have so much in common
and you live it and you go away and you still live it
and you're just a part of it. It's really Of course,
under the new logo they've got for the former
Students Association, the ring is the thing, but
that's just representative of what it's all.
They've had so many, and they go through, I think,
at A&M a lot of, and it's on a different scale, but
when I was in A&M, you had so many
associations, though however small, they were
all based on the common contact that you had and the
goal that you had to finish and be some kind of a
citizen, you see. Am I correct that for you and your
contemporaries, it didn't matter very much about
how much family income that youngster had in his
background, what his hometown was? It's what he
did when he got here and how he reacted thereafter.
And to me, there were and hopefully still are a
series of activities that were inclusive in
nature of Aggies instead of being exclusive.
That's right. That's a good way to say it. Once an
A&M man, always... That's what makes it.
The, for example, when you were a student, I'm
assuming that it didn't, that you had some
acquaintances who were Hispanic, who were
Jewish, who were Catholic, who were Protestant.
Yes, and maybe I ought not to make a record of this,
but you know, When I was going to A&M, we had no
blacks.
That was an old saying, you know, where the Prairie
View students picked up an Aggie, or they had
something in Canada, and they ended up, they said,
well, us Aggies has got to stick together. But I
don't, we didn't, you took the guy as he came from
whatever source. I went to high school in Orange.
And I heard about the Kishi boys that came to A&M.
Were any of the Kishi boys here when you were here?
They were Japanese? Japanese? Mm-hmm.
No, I don't think so. But were they
horticulturalists? Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Their
family had been, originally they were rice
farmers that came early in the century, and so they
were second generation American, and all fought
in Europe. I don't remember that family. The
biggest family that I can recall of A&M students
from Beaumont, the Kokinos. Yes. Mike was in my
class. Let me record an anecdote about the Kokinos
brothers. I was speaking over there to the
Beaumont A&M Club, noted for their enthusiasm and
their loyalty, and the president was mentioning,
this is when women were just here, And the
president mentioned and reminded the group that
his wife, after World War II, had been a summer
school student here for three summers, and she had
earned 18 hours. And he got a great laugh by
repeating what she had said. She said, I only got 18
hours of credit, but I have more grade points than
all the Kokonos brothers combined. And the
Beaumont audience chuckled. And then he added,
but I remember a reporter asking their father how
he felt about having, and I think it was six sons on
active duty. And he said, I feel very proud, and I
wish I had six more sons so that they, too, could
serve this country. They're a famous family. Oh,
my, yes. Let's see. Next to last question. Let's
make believe that someone gives you a check for $1
million, and there's only one requirement with
the gift, that you pass that million dollars on to
Texas A&M, but you can decide what use would be made
for the money. If you had a million dollars to give
to Texas A&M, what would you want them to do with it?
What would be your favorite purpose?
Well,
in some way, I would want it to go to the individuals
who attend or want to attend. That would be
scholarships for students.
And then at the same level, you would want it for not
scholarships now, but for the
academic
leaders to influence the students in the ways.
Buildings, fees can build buildings,
but you've got to put it into the person. And it
would depend upon which side needs the greater
emphasis. And I imagine that A&M,
they have a lot of scholarship, but probably it
should come from, I mean to, and I guess they are too
doing that, would be provide teaching
chairs,
Last question. Last question. What feelings do
you hold in your heart now for Texas A&M? Well, I
think it's the same that every A&M graduate has,
that
it's probably the only school in the country that
really means something. and that you try to repay
and you never forget the training you had. I
believe that my academic model, my completed one,
is very broad, but I don't doubt that the training,
the education that I got at A&M was the basis for
what I've been able to produce since. Let's quit
there.